Documents the capabilities a id require against a ceph cluster (#1278)
ceph/ceph-csi: docs/capabilities.md

# Capabilities a id requires against a Ceph cluster

Ceph uses the term capabilities to describe authorizing an authenticated user
to exercise the functionality of the monitors, OSDs and metadata servers.
Capabilities can also restrict access to data within a pool or pool namespace.
A Ceph administrative user sets a user's capabilities when creating or
updating a user.

## RBD

As we see we have provisioner and expand secret in storage class the secret
mention in the storage class need to have below ceph capabilities

> 

Reviewer: Can you please re-phrase this?

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

> And for the node stage secret in storageclass the user need to have below
> ceph capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And for the node stage secret in storage class, the user needs to have the 
below-mentioned ceph capabilities
```

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

## CephFS plugins

> Similarly in CephFS for the provisioner stage secret in storageclass the user
> need to have below ceph capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly in CephFS, for the provisioner stage secret in storage class, the user 
needs to have the below-mentioned ceph capabilities
```

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*"
```

> And for node stage secret in storageclass theuser need to have below ceph
> capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And for node stage secret in the storage class, the user needs to have below-mentioned 
ceph capabilities
```

# Capabilities a id requires against a Ceph cluster

Ceph uses the term capabilities to describe authorizing an authenticated user
to exercise the functionality of the monitors, OSDs and metadata servers.
Capabilities can also restrict access to data within a pool or pool namespace.
A Ceph administrative user sets a user's capabilities when creating or
updating a user.

## RBD

> As we see we have provisioner and node stage secret in storage class, for the
> provisioner stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
> below-mentioned ceph capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have provisioner and node stage secrets in the storage class.
For the provisioner stage secret in storageclass, the user needs 
to have the below-mentioned ceph capabilities
```

> # Capabilities a id requires against a Ceph cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Capabilities of an user require for ceph-csi in Ceph cluster
```

Ceph uses the term capabilities to describe authorizing an authenticated user
to exercise the functionality of the monitors, OSDs and metadata servers.
Capabilities can also restrict access to data within a pool or pool namespace.
A Ceph administrative user sets a user's capabilities when creating or
updating a user.

## RBD

> We have provisioner and node stage secret in storage class. For the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have provisioner, controller expand and node stage secrets in storage class. For the
provisioner and controller expand secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
below mentioned ceph capabilities.
```

provisioner stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
below-mentioned ceph capabilities

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

> And for the node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
> below-mentioned ceph capabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And for the node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
below-mentioned ceph capabilities.
```

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

> ## CephFS plugins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## CephFS
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: node-plugin also need mgr access  to  run flattening command

> Similarly in CephFS, for the provisioner stage secret in storageclass, the user
> needs to have the below-mentioned ceph capabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly in CephFS, provisioner and controller expand secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
below mentioned ceph capabilities.
```

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*"
```

And for node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have

> the below-mentioned ceph capabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And for node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have
the below-mentioned ceph capabilities.
``

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs *=*",
"mds", "allow rw"
```

To get more insights on capabilities of cephfs you can refer
[this document](https://ceph.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cephfs/client-auth/)

> ## Command to create user with above capabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Command to create a user with required capabilities
```

### command for RBD

```bash
ceph auth get-or-create client.kubernetes mon 'profile rbd' osd 'profile rbd' \
mgr 'allow rw'
```

```bash
ceph auth get-or-create client.kubernetes mon 'profile rbd' osd 'profile rbd'
```

> ### command for CephFS plugins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### command for CephFS
```

# Capabilities of an user required for a ceph-csi in an Ceph cluster

Ceph uses the term capabilities to describe authorizing an authenticated user
to exercise the functionality of the monitors, OSDs and metadata servers.
Capabilities can also restrict access to data within a pool or pool namespace.
A Ceph administrative user sets a user's capabilities when creating or
updating a user.

## RBD

We have provisioner, controller expand and node stage secrets in storage class.
For the provisioner and controller expand stage secret in storageclass, the
user needs to have the  below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

> And for the node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the

Reviewer 3: I am not sure what `node stage` refers to here, it is not very clear.
The "Node Host" runs the "Node Plugin" and does a Stage operation. The text now seems to try to express all terms into a single phrase. It would be better to explain what operations are done on the node (Stage, Publish, Unpublish, Unstage) and what capabilities these require (as Madhu indicates below).
The same cane be done for the operations executed by the provisioner.

Reviewer 2: This may need to rephrase we have `node-stage-secret-name` storage class it is a secret name in secret we have userid and user key which is corresponds to the userid and his credentials in ceph cluster to perform some actions.

Author: okay, I will rephrase it.

Author: @nixpanic I dont feel like we need to explain about the operations that are done on the node in this document as this document mainly focuses on the capabilities that a user requires. What do you say @Madhu-1 on this? Please, Let me know your suggestions and if you feel like we need this to be mention here, I will add it.

Reviewer 2: Jus rephrasing is required here.

Author: okay. I have added this thing in the beginning of the doc, So that it will be clear for the readers about the userid and key

below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"osd", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw"
```

## CephFS

Similarly in CephFS, for the provisioner and controller expand stage secret in
storageclass, the user needs to have the below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*"
```

And for node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have
the below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs *=*",
"mds", "allow rw"
```

To get more insights on capabilities of cephfs you can refer
[this document](https://ceph.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cephfs/client-auth/)

> ## Command to a create user with required capabilities

Reviewer 3: the "create user" should be explained a little in this (non-existing) paragraph. Below the user is `kubernetes` (the part after `client.`), and the username is configured in the StorageClass too.
We might even have two users in the StorageClass? One admin (provisioner) and one client (node)?

Reviewer 2: these are the users configured in secrets, not storage-class. yes we have two users one for provisioning and one for mapping/mounting

Author: @Madhu-1 and @nixpanic so, shall I explain more about the create user here?

Reviewer 2: you need to explain about the `kubernetes` user as `user` need to be replaced in secret also if you are planning to use a different user other than `kubernetes`

Author: I have mentioned it, as the user is subjected to change as per the requirements.

### command for RBD

```bash

> ceph auth get-or-create client.kubernetes mon 'profile rbd' osd 'profile rbd' \

Reviewer 3: to make it easier to match the above listed capabilities, please re-format the command like this:
```bash
ceph auth get-or-create client.kubernetes \
    mon 'profile rbd' \
    osd 'profile rbd' \
    mgr 'allow rw'
```

mgr 'allow rw'
```

```bash
ceph auth get-or-create client.kubernetes mon 'profile rbd' osd 'profile rbd' \

> mgr 'allow rw'

Reviewer 3: this command is listed 2x, that does not seem necessary.

Reviewer 2: Having 2 users is useful useful later if provisioner required more caps we don't need to change the node-stage user ( as it will be less privileged)

Hence, those capabilities are documented below.

## RBD

We have provisioner, controller expand and node stage secrets in storage class.
For the provisioner and controller expand stage secret in storageclass, the
user needs to have the  below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "profile rbd"
```

And for the node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have the
below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "profile rbd",
"osd", "profile rbd",
"mgr", "allow rw"
```

## CephFS

Similarly in CephFS, for the provisioner and controller expand stage secret in
storageclass, the user needs to have the below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*"
```

And for node stage secret in storageclass, the user needs to have
the below mentioned ceph capabilities.

```text
"mon", "allow r",
"mgr", "allow rw",
"osd", "allow rw tag cephfs *=*",
"mds", "allow rw"
```

To get more insights on capabilities of cephfs you can refer
[this document](https://ceph.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cephfs/client-auth/)

## Command to a create user with required capabilities

> "kubernetes" in the below commands represents an user which is subjected

Reviewer 2: `"kubernetes"` to `kubernetes` use "``"

to change as per your requirement.

> ### command for RBD

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### create user  for RBD
```
the same change is  required for cephfs also
